Our book repository is nearly ready, we just need to add transaction management.
Transaction management is an important matter for enterprises.
It allows applications to have consistent data and data is crucial for business.
Data must be accurate regardless of the operations you perform and the
number of applications concurrently accessing it.
A transaction is used to ensure that the data is kept in a consistent state.
It represents a logical group of operation that must be
performed as a single unit of work.
They either succeed or failed atomically.
These operations can involve persisting data in one or several databases,
sending messages or invoking web services.
To handle transaction management,
Java EE comes with a dedicated specification called JTA,
or Java Transaction API.
JTA is a general API for managing transaction in Java EE.
It allows us to start, commit,
and rollback transactions in a resource neutral way.
Managing transaction is a very complex task,
but the good news is that JTA gives us an eye level API so we just
do transaction demarcation using annotations.
The container will automatically begin and commit
transaction based on annotations.
We don't have to programmatically do it.
Note that transactions can be propagated to other methods if we need to.
Let's come back to our BookRepository.
As we can see, the first three methods select data from the database,
while the last two insert and delete data.
So we can say that the find methods are read only and the
create and delete methods are write only.
With this in mind, let's see what transaction demarcation we could use.
To have transaction demarcation we just annotate the method with
transactional and the container does the rest.
It intercepts the method invocation and behind the scene starts a
JTA transaction before the method is invoked and commits all
rollbacks after the method is executed.
Here we use the default REQUIRED strategy.
This means that the container must always propagate
the transaction through the code.
We can use the same transaction policy for the delete method.
For the read only methods, we could use the SUPPORTS strategy instead.
SUPPORTS allows the callee to iterate the caller's transaction.
This means that if the find method is invoked outside a transaction,
a new transaction will not be created, but if it is invoked inside a transaction,
for example, another method doing an insert and then invoking the find,
we want this read only method to be executed within the same
transaction to allow database isolation.
We could duplicate this annotation on the findAll and countAll methods or move it to the class.